[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello, and welcome.
I'm David Icke.
And today we'll be answering the
question, who built the Matrix?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I've talked in this series
about the fact that I feel--
and I'm nothing
like alone anymore.
In fact, quite the opposite,
as more and more mainstream
scientists start looking at
reality from this direction--
that we live in some
form of simulation.
A virtual reality which has
not been naturally created,
but artificially created.
And so if that's the case, some
intelligence has created it.
So who?
There is a common theme
that is quite obvious,
and that is of some force
that's not human manipulating
human affairs.
And we can look at it, as
many do, in the form of they
are extraterrestrials or aliens.
Or we can go deeper and see
it as a form of consciousness
that takes the form of what
people call extraterrestrials.
So until the 1920s,
mainstream science
said there was one
galaxy, the Milky Way.
And if you'd have
said at the time,
no, no, there's not
one galaxy, there
are phenomenal
numbers of galaxies
in the universe, the
prevailing wisdom of the time--
one-- would have said,
oh, it's ridiculous.
Don't be ridiculous.
That's crazy, man.
The latest highest
estimate I have
seen in the mainstream of
galaxies in the universe
is 2 trillion.
From one to 2 trillion,
since the 1920s.
So obviously, the potential
for other life that's not human
is beyond phenomenal, and the
very idea that humans are alone
is crazy.
But so many people believe that.
And even now if you talk
about it in the public eye,
much of the media will
ridicule you for it.
I have been.
But all these ancient societies
describe that phenomenon,
they describe the
visitations, and they
describe how non-human entities
are manipulating human society.
And my view is
that an expression
of this non-human force, one
of these non-human forces,
is behind the creation of
the Matrix, or simulation.
Now, when you look at these
ancient societies, and the way
they pass this knowledge
on through the carriers
of the knowledge, you see
these different descriptions
of this force or forces.
The Star People,
the Shining Ones,
the Jinn in the Islamic belief.
Actually pre-Islamic belief,
where it came from originally.
And you see descriptions
of the Archons
by a people that go under
the heading of Gnostics.
And if you want an example
of how different names are
described in the same
way, then look no further
than the Archons and the Jinn.
The way they're described, even
in the wording, is so similar.
And so you have this
recurring theme,
where you realize that
a lot of these names
for different expressions
of this non-human force,
interacting with
the Earth, going
way back in human
society, are actually
the same force under
different names.
And if we take
the Gnostic story,
it's very indicative of
the stories in general.
The Gnostics, they
weren't a race,
they were a people, a
belief system, if you like.
And there's still people
that basically go along
with the Gnostic way of
looking at things today.
And what is for sure is
the authority, hierarchy,
of the Roman Church did
not like the Gnostics.
Whenever the Gnostics
got a location
and were being
successful in circulating
their perception of reality,
the Catholic Church, the Roman
Church, sent the boys in.
So for instance, one
expression of Gnostics
where the Cathars in Southern
France, who were destroyed,
at least in the public
arena, by the Roman church.
And it culminated in the siege
of the Castle of Montségur
in Southern France in
1244, which I've visited.
It's an amazing place.
And another expression
of the Gnostics
were the people that
ran the Great or Royal
Library in Alexandria,
which, at one time,
was a place that
held an estimated
half a million scrolls, holding
knowledge of human history
and of human knowledge
in many fields,
not least what we would
call scientific fields.
And that Royal Library and
that Gnostic belief system
again was targeted by our
friends in the Roman Church,
and it was destroyed.
But then, when it seemed that
the Gnostic knowledge, the way
the Gnostics saw the world,
to a large extent disappeared,
came an amazing find at a place
called Nag Hammadi in Egypt,
about some 70 miles, 80 miles
from Luxor in the Nile Valley.
And what was found in
a sealed earthen jar
were a treasure trove
of Gnostic writings.
They-- it would seem,
it's been estimated--
were put in that
jar maybe around 400
AD, that kind of
time, which would
fit with the destruction of the
Great Library at Alexandria.
They had not been changed as
traditional religious texts
that have been out
in the open to suit
the authority of the day.
So basically, what you
got was what they wrote.
And it's suggested that the
knowledge that these Nag
Hammadi texts contained go
back much further than 400 AD,
centuries earlier maybe.
And what they say is
quite extraordinary.
There are now books that
have translated them.
I've read two versions,
at least, in my research.
One fifth, about one
fifth, of these writings
describe a phenomenon
they call Archons.
And they call them Archons
because that's a Greek word
meaning ruler, rulers.
And these writings say that
this non-human phenomenon
they call the
Archons, the rulers,
had created a fake
reality to enslave humans.
And I'll come to that
in a second a bit more.
But briefly, when you
break down their language,
the way they describe this
fake reality, and then
you apply that to
the modern world
of technology-generated
virtual reality,
it's extraordinary that you
can see the common themes.
That what they would describe
in their language of the day,
in their culture of the day, and
their environment of the day,
could very easily be
applied in modern language
to virtual reality
simulation, this fake reality
that we're talking about.
Another interesting thing
is that these writings say
that the Archons in their
prime form were not form,
they were simply expressions
of consciousness.
A state of consciousness in
a state of great unbalance,
thus their behavior
was unbalanced.
But that this Archontic
energetic consciousness
did take form in which they
appeared in the human world.
And fascinatingly, from
texts that were, it seems,
hidden away around 400 AD
maybe, in that period--
only found in 1945--
say that the two prime
forms that this Archontic
consciousness took were
reptilian or serpentine,
and a form that looked like
an unborn baby, or fetus,
with gray skin and
dark unmoving eyes,
which could be a fair
description of what
it is described in UFO
research fields as the Grays.
And to see that connection
in these Nag Hammadi texts
was very, very
interesting to me,
because one of the
pennies that needs to drop
is that this phenomenon of
reptilian, gray, et cetera,
interactions with human society
is not a modern phenomenon.
It's just that we're
experiencing it now.
But it goes way back.
And again, when you scan
the ancient accounts
around the world, reptilian,
and what we call Grays,
comes up again and again
in terms of visitations
in the ancient world.
One man that I've spent a lot
of time with over the years
is a Zulu shaman, the official
historian of the Zulu nation,
called Credo Mutwa.
A very famous shaman.
And I met him many
years ago and had
long conversations with him.
And in Zulu legend,
accounts, lore, they
speak of what they
call the Chitauri.
And the Chitauri are the, quote,
"children of the serpent."
Also known as the devastators.
They are, the Zulu
say, a reptilian race
manipulating human society.
And what's interesting about
the whole reptilian phenomenon,
when you go deeper
into it and you dig up
the various descriptions of
them, is that they are quote,
"obsessed with technology."
Technology is their god.
They are expert at
technological advancement.
And so when you think where
we are in the human world
today in developing virtual
reality technology--
it's moving so fast.
And then you think where another
race, much more technologically
advanced, where
would they be now
in terms of creating
a simulation,
which, if you were
being manipulated by it,
you'd have no idea, certainly
in the daily experience,
that it was simulation?
And this kind of, again, comes
back to these Gnostic writings.
They say that this Archontic
force, which in one area
takes a reptilian form,
created this fake reality.
And humans are entrapped
by it because they don't
realize that it is a trap.
They think it's a natural world.
And when, again, you look at
the way the Gnostics described
this fake reality,
you can apply it
to the phenomenon that's
become known as the Matrix,
described, of course,
in "The Matrix" movies.
And what the Nag
Hammadi texts say
is that this fake reality is
a bad copy of prime reality.
And so basically
what has happened
is that a copy of
this world as it was--
Think of "The
Matrix" movies, where
they're in the real
world, as they call it,
and then they go
into the Matrix when
they get attached to
the information, which
they decode into that
Matrix world of illusion.
That this world was created as
a bad copy of prime reality.
And at the start,
the simulation was
a reflection of prime reality.
It was not same as, but it
was a copy of it as it was.
And what's happened since then
is this simulation has been
constantly changed to make,
with every passing year--
especially now--
the bad copy becoming less
and less an expression
of what it's a copy of.
You can look at the
destruction of the rainforests,
for instance.
You look at the environmental
destruction in general.
You can see the way the natural
world, or this what I would say
is a copy of the prime
reality natural world,
has been changed and
made to be less and less
the beautiful place of
which it was a copy.
So if, again, you look at
how virtual reality works,
you have a source of information
from the virtual reality
game that you are
playing, experiencing,
and it hijacks, overrides,
the five senses that
are decoding the reality
that we call the world,
I call the simulation.
It overrides them.
And so, suddenly, the
person with a headset on
and the gloves and the
earphones is experiencing
another reality, even though it
seems very, very real to them,
especially the more
sophisticated virtual reality
technology gets.
They are experiencing
a reality that
feels very real that is nothing
more than information being
communicated to the brain
through the five senses, which
is hacking in to the information
that we would normally
decode into this reality.
So someone is standing
there, or sitting there,
within the reality
we call the world,
but that overriding of their
senses and decoding processes
means they are experiencing
another world, a virtual world,
within the reality that
we call human society.
And what this means is that,
if you can create a situation
where the information
that you are generating
to create this
simulation can override
the normal human decoding
processes of reality,
people will start
decoding the simulation.
And another common theme that
has come to me in information
again and again around the
world is a common theme
you find, for instance, in
the Bible in Genesis, where
it talks about the sons
of God who interbred
with the daughters of men,
and the Nephilim and all
that theme.
And so many times when--
particularly in the Old
Testament of the Bible--
you see these stories
and these concepts
and these descriptions,
when you look
around the non-biblical
world of ancient societies
and the knowledge passed
through to present day,
you find the same basic
stories being told.
With different names
for their heroes,
but the same basic stories.
It's my view, having looked
at this for a long time,
that what's being
described there
is the manipulation of the human
form, the human energetic field
if you like, that from which the
body is a projection, to tune
it in to the simulation
information source.
And once this transition
was instigated,
the human decoding
processes were
locked in to the information
source being broadcast
by the simulation, at
which point humans started
experiencing a reality
they thought was real,
they thought had
naturally evolved.
But ever since, it's
been the fake reality
the Gnostics described.
This Archontic force,
by its very nature,
by its own state of being,
has a very limited range
of frequency.
I've talked in
other shows of how
your perceptions,
your state of being,
your beliefs, your emotional
state, your mental state,
dictates your frequency.
And if you are in a
very distorted state
of consciousness that we would
then describe as malevolent,
that is a state of imbalance.
Because balanced consciousness
is not malevolent.
It comes from a space of
love, what we call love.
So because of this distortion
that we call malevolence,
it's on a very low frequency,
and a very limited frequency.
And so what it's had to
do is to draw humanity
into that frequency band
that it operates in,
and this simulation operates
in, for obvious reasons--
the Archontic force created it--
and to hold them in
that vibrational state.
This is why we have this
tidal wave of manipulation,
not least in the world today,
to control human perception,
thus control the human
frequency, thus to hold it
in this simulation.
Because once you expand
your consciousness
beyond the walls
of the simulation,
suddenly the world
looks very different,
and you start to understand
the situation that we are in.
And so we have a
situation where,
if we go on accepting
and believing
in the limits of the possible
and the limits of describing
this world that we call human
that come from mainstream
sources, we are going
to go on believing
that a simulated
reality is real.
And that which is
controlling the simulation
will go on through that,
controlling our perception.
And it's simply a cause
and effect feedback loop,
where the simulation
gives us our perceptions,
our perceptions are that
it's real, and so it goes on.
And what this awakening now is
potentially allowing us to do,
this awakening from the
limitations of human perception
up to this point, is
to see our plight,
to see the situation
we're in, and to start
to grasp how it works and thus
how we can stop it working.
So how do we break out of
this control by simulation?
First of all, you stop
believing what it's telling you.
And you allow your sense of the
possible to expand and expand
and expand in the
knowledge that, at best,
in terms of awareness
and knowledge,
we are living in the
stone age of possibility.
And beyond the firewalls of
this reality lies infinity.
Infinity of possibility.
A potential of everything.
And if we allow that sense
of the possible to expand,
we allow our sense of
self-identity to expand.
I'm not my labels, I am
the infinite awareness
having the experience
called the labels.
And if we set other
people free so
they don't fear what we think
because of the consequences
that we give them if they think
something different to us.
And therefore, we set
people free to explore
all possibility.
If we open the heart, our
connection to levels of reality
way beyond the simulation--
that's why they want
closed-hearted people--
it takes you beyond the
simulation immediately.
If we do that, then the
power the simulation
has over us to control our
perception, thus our lives,
diminishes and dilutes and
dilutes and dilutes and dilutes
until we are the ones
who are controlling
our perceptions again.
And not the virtual
reality game feeding
its version of reality and self
that is there for one reason--
to hold us in perceptual
therefore ongoing servitude.
You know, when you look at
these apparently unsolvable
problems--
oh, what can we do,
there's nothing we can do--
it all comes back to a very
simple, constant recurring
theme.
We are here because we are here.
When we are here, we
are no longer here
either in our perceptions
or in the life experiences
that we have.
We are infinity.
If we start to live it,
then the world of limitation
must disappear because we'll no
longer be interacting with it
and thus having it
control our lives.
Like everything, the
complications of the problem
are just a perception
of the problem.
The answers are so simple,
and anyone can do it.
It's just a choice.
See you next time.